---------------------------------------
Test of the accuracy of the methods implemented in MAELAS
---------------------------------------

In this folder you can find some tests of the accuracy of the methods implemented in MAELAS for all supported crystal symmetries. In this test we impose some theoretical elastic and magnetoelastic constants, and we use them to evaluate the  energy using the theoretical equations of the elastic and magnetoelastic energies for each deformed unit cell generated by MAELAS. Next, these energies are copied into a ```OSZICAR-like``` file and used as inputs for MAELAS in order to compute the magnetoelastic constants and magnetostrictive coeffcients. Hence, one can check the accuracy of the methods implemented in MAELAS by comparing the imposed theoretical elastic and magnetoelastic constants with the final calculated values by MAELAS.


------------------------
How to run this test
------------------------

In the folder for each crystal symmetry and method (mode), there are two folders called input and output. To run this test, just copy all files in the folder ```input``` into the folder ```output```, go to this folder and execute the file called ```run``` 

```bash
./run
```  

This will generate two output files called ```output_maelas.dat``` and ```output_exact.dat```, where you can find the magnetoelastic constants and magnetostrictive coeffcients calculated by MAELAS (```output_maelas.dat```) and their exact values (```output_exact.dat```). Therefore, one can estimate the accuracy of the calcualtion of MAELAS by comparing the values printed in these files. Note this test is also useful to identify possible bugs or errors in MAELAS easily, as well as to explore possible extensions or improvements in the methods implemented in MAELAS. In these tests, we can clearly see that ```-mode 2``` is more accurate and robust than ```-mode 1```, especially for non-cubic crystals. More details about this test can be found in the following reference: 

P. Nieves, S. Arapan, S.H. Zhang, A.P. Kądzielawa, R.F. Zhang and D. Legut,
“MAELAS 2.0: A new version of a computer program  for the calculation of magneto-elastic properties”, Computer Physics Communications 271 (2022) 108197

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2021.108197](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2021.108197)



